README.md, before:

## *Trompeloeil*

![trompeloeil logo](trompeloeil-logo.png)

CI: [ ![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rollbear/trompeloeil.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rollbear/trompeloeil)
[ ![AppVeyor Build Status](
  https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/mbmjd9sl4n73qxm2/branch/master?svg=true)](
    https://ci.appveyor.com/project/rollbear/trompeloeil)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/rollbear/trompeloeil/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/rollbear/trompeloeil?branch=master)

[conan.io](https://conan.io) [ ![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/trompeloeil/trompeloeil/trompeloeil%3Arollbear/images/download.svg?version=v34%3Astable) ](https://bintray.com/trompeloeil/trompeloeil/trompeloeil%3Arollbear/v34%3Astable/link)

[![HitCount](http://hits.dwyl.io/rollbear/trompeloeil.svg)](http://hits.dwyl.io/rollbear/trompeloeil)

> *trompe l'oeil* noun    (Concise Encyclopedia)  
> Style of representation in which a painted object is intended
> to deceive the viewer into believing it is the object itself...


What is it?
-----------

A thread-safe header-only mocking framework for C++11/14 using the Boost Software License 1.0

Documentation
-------------

- [Integrating with unit test frame works](docs/CookBook.md/#unit_test_frameworks)
- [Introduction](https://playfulprogramming.blogspot.com/2014/12/introducing-trompeloeil-c-mocking.html)
- [How to contribute](#contribute)
- [Compiler compatibility](#compilers)
- [Presentation videos](#videos)
- [Trompeloeil on CppCast](http://cppcast.com/2017/02/bjorn-fahller/)
- [Cheat Sheet (2*A4)](docs/trompeloeil_cheat_sheet.pdf)
- [Cook Book](docs/CookBook.md)
- [FAQ](docs/FAQ.md)
- [Backward compatibility with earlier versions of C++](docs/Backward.md)
- [Platform and library support for Trompeloeil](docs/PlatformsAndLibraries.md)
- [Reference](docs/reference.md)

Also, follow up with the post on [sequencing](https://playfulprogramming.blogspot.se/2015/01/sequence-control-with-trompeloeil-c.html) for examples on how to restrict or relax allowed sequences of matching calls.  

Teaser
------
```Cpp
#include <trompeloeil.hpp>

class Interface
{
public:
  virtual ~Interface() = default;
  virtual bool foo(int, std::string& s) = 0;
  virtual bool bar(int) = 0;
  virtual bool bar(std::string) = 0;
};

void interface_func(Interface*); // function to test

class Mock : public Interface
{
public:
  MAKE_MOCK2(foo, bool(int, std::string&),override);
  MAKE_MOCK1(bar, bool(int),override);
  MAKE_MOCK1(bar, bool(std::string),override);
  MAKE_MOCK0(baz, void()); // not from Interface
};

TEST(exercise_interface_func)
{
  using trompeloeil::_;  // wild card for matching any value
  using trompeloeil::gt; // greater-than match

  Mock m;

  trompeloeil::sequence seq1, seq2;  // control order of matching calls

  int local_var = 0;

  REQUIRE_CALL(m, bar(ANY(int)))     // expect call to m.bar(int)
    .LR_SIDE_EFFECT(local_var = _1)  // set captured variable to value of param
    .RETURN(_1 > 0)                  // return value depending on param value
    .IN_SEQUENCE(seq1)               // must be first match for seq1
    .TIMES(AT_LEAST(1));             // can be called several times

  FORBID_CALL(m, bar(0));            // but m.bar(0) is not allowed

  REQUIRE_CALL(m, bar("word"))       // expect one call to m.bar(std::string)
    .RETURN(true)
    .IN_SEQUENCE(seq2);              // must be first match for seq2

  REQUIRE_CALL(m, foo(gt(2), _))     // expect call to foo(int,std::string&)
    .WITH(_2 == "")                  // with int > 2 and empty string
    .IN_SEQUENCE(seq1, seq2)         // last for both seq1 and seq2
    .SIDE_EFFECT(_2 = "cat")         // and set param string to "cat"
    .RETURN(true);

  interface_func(&m);

  // all the above expectations must be fulfilled here
}
```

<A name="contribute"/> How to contribute
-----------------

Contributions are most welcome. For new functionality, please file an issue as
an enhancement request first, to get a discussion going about how to best
implement it. Also for bugfixes, it is good to file an issue, so that others can
see what the problem is and when it's solved. Internal changes are normally not
mentioned in the ChangeLog - it should typically reflect what a user can see
(however, performance improvements and silencing warnings are visible for
users.) Feel free to add your name to the copyright blurb.


|Change                       | PR to          |
|-----------------------------|----------------|
|Documentation                |master branch   |
|Trivial bugfixes             |master branch   |
|Non trivial bugfixes         |develop branch  |
|Simple new functionality     |develop branch  |
|Non-trivial new functionality|new topic branch|



<A name="compilers"/> Compiler compatibility
----------------------

Trompeloeil is known to work with:

* GCC [4.8.4](docs/Backward.md#gxx48x_limitations)+, 4.9.3+, 5, 6, 7, 8
* Clang 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
* Visual Studio 2015, 2017

Latest patch level releases are assumed in the versions listed above.

Further details on C++11 support, platform and library limitations, may
be found in
- [Backward compatibility with earlier versions of C++](docs/Backward.md)
- [Platform and library support for Trompeloeil](docs/PlatformsAndLibraries.md)

<A name="videos"/> Videos
------

- Intro presentation from Stockholm C++ UG [(YouTube 34m)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPYNsARvTDk) [(Slides)](https://speakerdeck.com/rollbear/mocking-modern-c-plus-plus-with-trompeloeil)
- Presentation from NDC{Oslo} [(YouTube 52m)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vvQ-kK4coYM&t=1122s) [(Slides)](https://speakerdeck.com/rollbear/ndc-oslo-using-trompeloeil-a-mocking-framework-for-modern-c-plus-plus)
- Detailed presentation from ACCU 2017 [(YouTube 1h25m)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCh6cs9nXt0) [(Slides with extra material)](https://speakerdeck.com/rollbear/using-trompeloeil-a-mocking-framework-for-modern-c-plus-plus)

Commit message:

Add contributions documentation page
Signed-off-by: Robert Dailey <rcdailey@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

## *Trompeloeil*

![trompeloeil logo](trompeloeil-logo.png)

CI: [ ![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/rollbear/trompeloeil.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/rollbear/trompeloeil)
[ ![AppVeyor Build Status](
  https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/mbmjd9sl4n73qxm2/branch/master?svg=true)](
    https://ci.appveyor.com/project/rollbear/trompeloeil)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/rollbear/trompeloeil/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/rollbear/trompeloeil?branch=master)

[conan.io](https://conan.io) [ ![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/trompeloeil/trompeloeil/trompeloeil%3Arollbear/images/download.svg?version=v34%3Astable) ](https://bintray.com/trompeloeil/trompeloeil/trompeloeil%3Arollbear/v34%3Astable/link)

[![HitCount](http://hits.dwyl.io/rollbear/trompeloeil.svg)](http://hits.dwyl.io/rollbear/trompeloeil)

> *trompe l'oeil* noun    (Concise Encyclopedia)  
> Style of representation in which a painted object is intended
> to deceive the viewer into believing it is the object itself...


What is it?
-----------

A thread-safe header-only mocking framework for C++11/14 using the Boost Software License 1.0

Documentation
-------------

- [Integrating with unit test frame works](docs/CookBook.md/#unit_test_frameworks)
- [Introduction](https://playfulprogramming.blogspot.com/2014/12/introducing-trompeloeil-c-mocking.html)
- [How to contribute](#contribute)
- [Compiler compatibility](#compilers)
- [Presentation videos](#videos)
- [Trompeloeil on CppCast](http://cppcast.com/2017/02/bjorn-fahller/)
- [Cheat Sheet (2*A4)](docs/trompeloeil_cheat_sheet.pdf)
- [Cook Book](docs/CookBook.md)
- [FAQ](docs/FAQ.md)
- [Backward compatibility with earlier versions of C++](docs/Backward.md)
- [Platform and library support for Trompeloeil](docs/PlatformsAndLibraries.md)
- [Reference](docs/reference.md)

Also, follow up with the post on [sequencing](https://playfulprogramming.blogspot.se/2015/01/sequence-control-with-trompeloeil-c.html) for examples on how to restrict or relax allowed sequences of matching calls.  

Teaser
------
```Cpp
#include <trompeloeil.hpp>

class Interface
{
public:
  virtual ~Interface() = default;
  virtual bool foo(int, std::string& s) = 0;
  virtual bool bar(int) = 0;
  virtual bool bar(std::string) = 0;
};

void interface_func(Interface*); // function to test

class Mock : public Interface
{
public:
  MAKE_MOCK2(foo, bool(int, std::string&),override);
  MAKE_MOCK1(bar, bool(int),override);
  MAKE_MOCK1(bar, bool(std::string),override);
  MAKE_MOCK0(baz, void()); // not from Interface
};

TEST(exercise_interface_func)
{
  using trompeloeil::_;  // wild card for matching any value
  using trompeloeil::gt; // greater-than match

  Mock m;

  trompeloeil::sequence seq1, seq2;  // control order of matching calls

  int local_var = 0;

  REQUIRE_CALL(m, bar(ANY(int)))     // expect call to m.bar(int)
    .LR_SIDE_EFFECT(local_var = _1)  // set captured variable to value of param
    .RETURN(_1 > 0)                  // return value depending on param value
    .IN_SEQUENCE(seq1)               // must be first match for seq1
    .TIMES(AT_LEAST(1));             // can be called several times

  FORBID_CALL(m, bar(0));            // but m.bar(0) is not allowed

  REQUIRE_CALL(m, bar("word"))       // expect one call to m.bar(std::string)
    .RETURN(true)
    .IN_SEQUENCE(seq2);              // must be first match for seq2

  REQUIRE_CALL(m, foo(gt(2), _))     // expect call to foo(int,std::string&)
    .WITH(_2 == "")                  // with int > 2 and empty string
    .IN_SEQUENCE(seq1, seq2)         // last for both seq1 and seq2
    .SIDE_EFFECT(_2 = "cat")         // and set param string to "cat"
    .RETURN(true);

  interface_func(&m);

  // all the above expectations must be fulfilled here
}
```

<A name="contribute"/> How to contribute
-----------------

Contributions are most welcome. For new functionality, please file an issue as
an enhancement request first, to get a discussion going about how to best
implement it. Also for bugfixes, it is good to file an issue, so that others can
see what the problem is and when it's solved. Internal changes are normally not
mentioned in the ChangeLog - it should typically reflect what a user can see
(however, performance improvements and silencing warnings are visible for
users.) Feel free to add your name to the copyright blurb.


|Change                       | PR to          |
|-----------------------------|----------------|
|Documentation                |master branch   |
|Trivial bugfixes             |master branch   |
|Non trivial bugfixes         |develop branch  |
|Simple new functionality     |develop branch  |
|Non-trivial new functionality|new topic branch|

For more details on contributing to this project, please see the
[Contributing](docs/Contributing.md) page.

<A name="compilers"/> Compiler compatibility
----------------------

Trompeloeil is known to work with:

* GCC [4.8.4](docs/Backward.md#gxx48x_limitations)+, 4.9.3+, 5, 6, 7, 8
* Clang 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
* Visual Studio 2015, 2017

Latest patch level releases are assumed in the versions listed above.

Further details on C++11 support, platform and library limitations, may
be found in
- [Backward compatibility with earlier versions of C++](docs/Backward.md)
- [Platform and library support for Trompeloeil](docs/PlatformsAndLibraries.md)

<A name="videos"/> Videos
------

- Intro presentation from Stockholm C++ UG [(YouTube 34m)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mPYNsARvTDk) [(Slides)](https://speakerdeck.com/rollbear/mocking-modern-c-plus-plus-with-trompeloeil)
- Presentation from NDC{Oslo} [(YouTube 52m)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vvQ-kK4coYM&t=1122s) [(Slides)](https://speakerdeck.com/rollbear/ndc-oslo-using-trompeloeil-a-mocking-framework-for-modern-c-plus-plus)
- Detailed presentation from ACCU 2017 [(YouTube 1h25m)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HCh6cs9nXt0) [(Slides with extra material)](https://speakerdeck.com/rollbear/using-trompeloeil-a-mocking-framework-for-modern-c-plus-plus)
